README.md, before:

# TSI - Multi agent research dialogue system

To use the same methods as the researchers who posted the paper ------ , ------, ------. We used plato, developed by UberAI (which they work for).

## Installation w/ additional notes

To begin with the replication process we first need to create a environment with all the necessary packages in certain versions, and let me tell you - that was not easy to figure out!

Start by creating a fresh environment in python 3.6. We used anaconda, you may use python virtual environments if preferred.

```conda create -n plato python==3.6```

Then you need to install all required packages. Go to the plato-research-dialogue-system-master directory and run the following line:

```pip install -e .```

If there are any version conflicts, installing the lowest version present in requirements.txt should fix them.

For example: ```ludwig>=0.2.2``` -> ```pip install ludwig==0.2.2```

Tensorflow may also cause problems. So we recommend to try version 1.15, which should work fine.



### Running tutorial

The main tutorial was not great, so let's dive deeper into each step we should take to train the multi agent system.

#### Parsing the data

Go to https://github.com/matthen/dstc and download dstc2_traindev.tar.gz.

Then run the following command:

Go to `example/config/parser/Parse_DSTC2.yaml` and change the data_path to where you extracted the data mentioned above.

Then run:

```plato parse -config 'Parse_DSTC2.yaml'.```

If it doesn't work try with the full path to the yaml file:


```plato parse -config example/config/parser/Parse_DSTC2.yaml.```


Check the data folder to see if it worked. It should have created the following files:

![alt text](images/data_parsed.png)

#### Creating NL models

By using ludwig, we can train NLU, NLG and DST separated.


##### NLG

```ludwig experiment --model_definition_file Examples/config/ludwig_nlg_train.yaml --data_csv Data/data/DSTC2_NLG_sys.csv --output_directory Models\CamRestNLG\Sys\```

This should create the NLG model in the directory present in the last argument.

```ludwig experiment --model_definition_file Examples/config/ludwig_nlg_train.yaml --data_csv Data/data/DSTC2_NLG_usr.csv --output_directory Models\CamRestNLG\Usr\```

^ to create nlg for the user too.

##### DST

```ludwig experiment --model_definition_file Examples/config/ludwig_dst_train.yaml --data_csv Data/data/DSTC2_DST_sys.csv --output_directory Models\CamRestDST\Sys\```

```ludwig experiment --model_definition_file Examples/config/ludwig_dst_train.yaml --data_csv Data/data/DSTC2_DST_usr.csv --output_directory Models\CamRestDST\Usr\```

#### NLU

Nlu was a real problem. After wasting a lot of time without knowing what was wrong, we thought to check the paper released date and noticed it was older than the recent commits. So we reverted back to a older commit and noticed it worked. The old commit directory is also in the repo, since we tested a lot of stuff in that version.

We concluded the problem was ludwig's version (they were using ludwig==0.1 back then). We tried with 0.2.1 and it worked without ruining anything some place else. Note that you must also lower the version in requirements.txt (we know this is not a good practice, but it fixed the problem and did not create new ones).

So, after downgrading ludwig, the following should work:

```ludwig experiment --model_definition_file Examples/config/ludwig_nlu_train.yaml --data_csv Data/data/DSTC2_NLU_sys.csv --output_directory Models\CamRestNLU\Sys\```

```ludwig experiment --model_definition_file Examples/config/ludwig_nlu_train.yaml --data_csv Data/data/DSTC2_NLU_usr.csv --output_directory Models\CamRestNLU\Usr\```

Commit message:

readme update with new file

README.md, after:

# TSI - Multi agent research dialogue system

To use the same methods as the researchers who posted the paper ------ , ------, ------. We used plato, developed by UberAI (which they work for).

## Installation w/ additional notes

To begin with the replication process we first need to create a environment with all the necessary packages in certain versions, and let me tell you - that was not easy to figure out!

Start by creating a fresh environment in python 3.6. We used anaconda, you may use python virtual environments if preferred.

```conda create -n plato python==3.6```

Then you need to install all required packages. Go to the plato-research-dialogue-system-master directory and run the following line:

```pip install -e .```

If there are any version conflicts, installing the lowest version present in requirements.txt should fix them.

For example: ```ludwig>=0.2.2``` -> ```pip install ludwig==0.2.2```

Tensorflow may also cause problems. So we recommend to try version 1.15, which should work fine.



### Running tutorial

The main tutorial was not great, so let's dive deeper into each step we should take to train the multi agent system.

#### Parsing the data

Go to https://github.com/matthen/dstc and download dstc2_traindev.tar.gz.

Then run the following command:

Go to `example/config/parser/Parse_DSTC2.yaml` and change the data_path to where you extracted the data mentioned above.

Then run:

```plato parse -config 'Parse_DSTC2.yaml'.```

If it doesn't work try with the full path to the yaml file:


```plato parse -config example/config/parser/Parse_DSTC2.yaml.```


Check the data folder to see if it worked. It should have created the following files:

![alt text](images/data_parsed.png)

#### Creating NL models

By using ludwig, we can train NLU, NLG and DST separated.


##### NLG

```ludwig experiment --model_definition_file Examples/config/ludwig_nlg_train.yaml --data_csv Data/data/DSTC2_NLG_sys.csv --output_directory Models\CamRestNLG\Sys\```

This should create the NLG model in the directory present in the last argument.

```ludwig experiment --model_definition_file Examples/config/ludwig_nlg_train.yaml --data_csv Data/data/DSTC2_NLG_usr.csv --output_directory Models\CamRestNLG\Usr\```

^ to create nlg for the user too.

#### DST

When working with `DSTC2_DST_sys.csv` and `DSTC2_DST_usr.csv` for **Dialog State Tracking (DST)**, we encountered a structural difference between the two datasets, as they have **different features (column names)**. This required creating and using separate Ludwig configuration files (`.yaml`) to train the models effectively.

Initially, the provided configuration file `ludwig_dst_train.yaml` (changed to `ludwig_dst_train_sys.yaml`) was suitable for the **system dataset (`sys`)**, as it matched its specific features. However, when training the model with the **user dataset (`usr`)**, the configuration file needed modifications to reflect the different column structure. 

To solve this, we created a new configuration file called `ludwig_dst_train_usr.yaml`, which was tailored for the **user dataset**. This allowed successful training for both perspectives with the following commands:

- **For the system dataset (`sys`)**:
  ```bash
  ludwig experiment \
      --model_definition_file Examples/config/ludwig_dst_train.yaml \
      --data_csv Data/data/DSTC2_DST_sys.csv \
      --output_directory Models/CamRestDST/Sys/
    ```

- **For the user dataset (`usr`)**:
    ```bash
    ludwig experiment \
        --model_definition_file Examples/config/ludwig_dst_train_usr.yaml \
        --data_csv Data/data/DSTC2_DST_usr.csv \
        --output_directory Models/CamRestDST/Usr/
        ```

This ensures that both the system and user perspectives are accurately trained while accounting for their structural differences.

#### NLU

Nlu was a real problem. After wasting a lot of time without knowing what was wrong, we thought to check the paper released date and noticed it was older than the recent commits. So we reverted back to a older commit and noticed it worked. The old commit directory is also in the repo, since we tested a lot of stuff in that version.

We concluded the problem was ludwig's version (they were using ludwig==0.1 back then). We tried with 0.2.1 and it worked without ruining anything some place else. Note that you must also lower the version in requirements.txt (we know this is not a good practice, but it fixed the problem and did not create new ones).

So, after downgrading ludwig, the following should work:

```ludwig experiment --model_definition_file Examples/config/ludwig_nlu_train.yaml --data_csv Data/data/DSTC2_NLU_sys.csv --output_directory Models\CamRestNLU\Sys\```

```ludwig experiment --model_definition_file Examples/config/ludwig_nlu_train.yaml --data_csv Data/data/DSTC2_NLU_usr.csv --output_directory Models\CamRestNLU\Usr\```
